# 防抖函数

## 为什么要学习 js 的防抖函数

- 作为前端开发必知必会
- 面试时经常会问
- 闭包的实际应用

## 防抖函数

当持续触发事件，一定时间内没有再触发事件，事件处理函数才会执行一次，如果设定的时间到来之前，又一次触发了事件，就重新开始延时。

举例说明: (参考对应的 html 文件)在搜索框中，输入你要搜索的内容，一直输入，假设你停止输入的时间不超过一秒钟（延时为 1s），就不会触发搜索，当你停止输入超过 1s，就会触发搜索结果

触发事件，一段时间内，没有触发事件执行，肯定是定时器

## 防抖函数的实现案例

```js
  // A higher order function is a function that takes a function as an argument, or returns a function.
  const debounce = (callback, wait) => {
    let timeout;
    return (...args) => {
      const context = this;
      clearTimeout(timeout);
      timeout = setTimeout(() => callback.apply(context, args), wait);
    };
  };
```

The explanation of the code:

Debounce function receives two arguments: callback and wait.

The first argument is the actual function want to debounce, the second argument is the time we want to wait after the action is executed to trigger the callback.

Define the timeout variable, which is currently set to undefined, but will hold a number representing the ID value of the set timer.

This value is passed to the clearTimeout method to cancel the timer.

The timer is cancelled each time the function is called within the wait amount of time.

Return an arrow function that is executed each time the debounce method is called.

This function has an access to the arguments of the callback via ...args syntax, which should not be lost.

Apply this context for the scope of the setTimeout function (remember, that setTimeout creates its own execution context).

Clear the timeout, if it exists.
Create the timeout and apply the callback function to it by giving it the correct "this" context and arguments.

The ID of the newly created timeout is assigned to the timeout variable, which is cleared if the debounce function is executed within the wait period.

## 防抖函数的应用

### 1.React中实现延时搜索

```js
import React, { useState, useCallback } from "react";

import axios from "axios";
import debounce from "lodash/debounce";

const App = () => {
  const [value, setValue] = useState("");

  const handleChange = (e) => {
    const { value } = e.target;
    setValue(value);
    handleSearch(value);
  };

  const handleSearch = useCallback(
    debounce((value) => {
      axios.get(`search?query=${value}`);
    }, 500),
    []
  );

  return <input value={value} onChange={handleChange} />;
};

export default App;
```

Store each provided character in the state and execute handleSearch, which is a debounced function wrapper in the useCallback hook.

You know why?

When the function component is re-rendered, debouncing is performed over and over again, a new function is being created each time.

The useCallback hook caches the first debounced function for each subsequent render.

One request was sent after waiting 500ms from the time the user stopped typing.

This is a huge optimization.

### 2.Some code must be executed when the browser window is resized

```js
import React, { useEffect, useCallback } from "react";

import debounce from "lodash/debounce";

const App = () => {
  useEffect(() => {
    window.addEventListener("resize", handleResize);
    return () => {
      window.removeEventListener("resize", handleResize);
    };
  }, []);

  const handleResize = useCallback(
    debounce(() => {
      console.log("Resize");
    }, 50),
    []
  );

  return <div />;
};

```

## lodash _.debounce(func, [wait=0], [options={}])

Creates a debounced function that delays invoking func until after wait milliseconds have elapsed since the last time the debounced function was invoked. The debounced function comes with a cancel method to cancel delayed func invocations and a flush method to immediately invoke them. Provide options to indicate whether func should be invoked on the leading and/or trailing edge of the wait timeout. The func is invoked with the last arguments provided to the debounced function. Subsequent calls to the debounced function return the result of the last func invocation.

Note: If leading and trailing options are true, func is invoked on the trailing edge of the timeout only if the debounced function is invoked more than once during the wait timeout.

If wait is 0 and leading is false, func invocation is deferred until to the next tick, similar to setTimeout with a timeout of 0.

### Arguments

func (Function): The function to debounce.
[wait=0] (number): The number of milliseconds to delay.
[options={}] (Object): The options object.
[options.leading=false] (boolean): Specify invoking on the leading edge of the timeout.
[options.maxWait] (number): The maximum time func is allowed to be delayed before it's invoked.
[options.trailing=true] (boolean): Specify invoking on the trailing edge of the timeout.

### Returns

(Function): Returns the new debounced function.

### Example

```js
// Avoid costly calculations while the window size is in flux.
jQuery(window).on('resize', _.debounce(calculateLayout, 150));
 
// Invoke `sendMail` when clicked, debouncing subsequent calls.
jQuery(element).on('click', _.debounce(sendMail, 300, {
  'leading': true,
  'trailing': false
}));
 
// Ensure `batchLog` is invoked once after 1 second of debounced calls.
var debounced = _.debounce(batchLog, 250, { 'maxWait': 1000 });
var source = new EventSource('/stream');
jQuery(source).on('message', debounced);
 
// Cancel the trailing debounced invocation.
jQuery(window).on('popstate', debounced.cancel);
```