# 节流函数

当持续触发事件的时候，保证一段时间内，只调用一次事件处理函数
一段时间内，只做一件事。

## 实际应用 表单的提交

鼠标不断点击触发，规定在n秒内多次点击只有一次生效

## lodash _.throttle(func, [wait=0], [options={}])

Creates a throttled function that only invokes func at most once per every wait milliseconds. The throttled function comes with a cancel method to cancel delayed func invocations and a flush method to immediately invoke them. Provide options to indicate whether func should be invoked on the leading and/or trailing edge of the wait timeout. The func is invoked with the last arguments provided to the throttled function. Subsequent calls to the throttled function return the result of the last func invocation.

Note: If leading and trailing options are true, func is invoked on the trailing edge of the timeout only if the throttled function is invoked more than once during the wait timeout.

If wait is 0 and leading is false, func invocation is deferred until to the next tick, similar to setTimeout with a timeout of 0.


### Arguments

func (Function): The function to throttle.
[wait=0] (number): The number of milliseconds to throttle invocations to.
[options={}] (Object): The options object.
[options.leading=true] (boolean): Specify invoking on the leading edge of the timeout.
[options.trailing=true] (boolean): Specify invoking on the trailing edge of the timeout.

### Returns

(Function): Returns the new throttled function.

### Example:

```js
// Avoid excessively updating the position while scrolling.
jQuery(window).on('scroll', _.throttle(updatePosition, 100));
 
// Invoke `renewToken` when the click event is fired, but not more than once every 5 minutes.
var throttled = _.throttle(renewToken, 300000, { 'trailing': false });
jQuery(element).on('click', throttled);
 
// Cancel the trailing throttled invocation.
jQuery(window).on('popstate', throttled.cancel);
```